---
layout: post
title: How to Win Friends and Influence People
---

<div id="_mcePaste">
<div id="_mcePaste">How to Win Friends and Influence People</div>
<div id="_mcePaste">This is Dale Carnegie's summary of his book, from 1936</div>
<div id="_mcePaste"></div>
<div id="_mcePaste">1.<span style="white-space: pre;"> </span>Fundamental Techniques in Handling People</div>
<div id="_mcePaste">
<ul>
	<li><span style="line-height: 19px;">Don't criticize, condemn or complain.</span></li>
	<li><span style="line-height: 19px;">Give honest and sincere appreciation.</span></li>
	<li><span style="line-height: 19px;">Arouse in the other person an eager want.</span></li>
</ul>
</div>
<div id="_mcePaste"></div>
<div id="_mcePaste">2.<span style="white-space: pre;"> </span>Six ways to make people like you</div>
<div id="_mcePaste">
<ul>
	<li><span style="line-height: 19px;">Become genuinely interested in other people.</span></li>
	<li><span style="line-height: 19px;">Smile.</span></li>
	<li><span style="line-height: 19px;">Remember that a person's name is to that person the sweetest and most important sound in any language.</span></li>
	<li><span style="line-height: 19px;">Be a good listener. Encourage others to talk about themselves.</span></li>
	<li><span style="line-height: 19px;">Talk in terms of the other person's interests.</span></li>
	<li><span style="line-height: 19px;">Make the other person feel important - and do it sincerely.</span></li>
</ul>
</div>
<div id="_mcePaste"></div>
<div id="_mcePaste">3.<span style="white-space: pre;"> </span>Win people to your way of thinking</div>
<div id="_mcePaste">
<ul>
	<li><span style="line-height: 19px;">The only way to get the best of an argument is to avoid it.</span></li>
	<li><span style="line-height: 19px;">Show respect for the other person's opinions. Never say, "You're wrong."</span></li>
	<li><span style="line-height: 19px;">If you are wrong, admit it quickly and emphatically.</span></li>
	<li><span style="line-height: 19px;">Begin in a friendly way.</span></li>
	<li><span style="line-height: 19px;">Get the other person saying "yes, yes" immediately.</span></li>
	<li><span style="line-height: 19px;">Let the other person do a great deal of the talking.</span></li>
	<li><span style="line-height: 19px;">Let the other person feel that the idea is his or hers.</span></li>
	<li><span style="line-height: 19px;">Try honestly to see things from the other person's point of view.</span></li>
	<li><span style="line-height: 19px;">Be sympathetic with the other person's ideas and desires.</span></li>
	<li><span style="line-height: 19px;">Appeal to the nobler motives.</span></li>
	<li><span style="line-height: 19px;">Dramatize your ideas.</span></li>
	<li><span style="line-height: 19px;">Throw down a challenge.</span></li>
</ul>
</div>
<div id="_mcePaste"></div>
<div id="_mcePaste">4.<span style="white-space: pre;"> </span>Be a Leader: How to Change People Without Giving Offense or Arousing Resentment</div>
<div id="_mcePaste">A leader's job often includes changing your people's attitudes and behavior. Some suggestions to accomplish this:</div>
<div id="_mcePaste">
<ul>
	<li><span style="line-height: 19px;">Begin with praise and honest appreciation.</span></li>
	<li><span style="line-height: 19px;">Call attention to people's mistakes indirectly.</span></li>
	<li><span style="line-height: 19px;">Talk about your own mistakes before criticizing the other person.</span></li>
	<li><span style="line-height: 19px;">Ask questions instead of giving direct orders.</span></li>
	<li><span style="line-height: 19px;">Let the other person save face.</span></li>
	<li><span style="line-height: 19px;">Praise the slightest improvement and praise every improvement. Be "hearty in your approbation and lavish in your praise."</span></li>
	<li><span style="line-height: 19px;">Give the other person a fine reputation to live up to.</span></li>
	<li><span style="line-height: 19px;">Use encouragement. Make the fault seem easy to correct.</span></li>
	<li><span style="line-height: 19px;">Make the other person happy about doing the thing you suggest.</span></li>
</ul>
</div>
<div></div>
</div>